.TH yamn 1 "21 Nov 2014" "version 0.1d"

.SH NAME
yamn - An anonymous remailer application

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B [-m] [-s] [-l rem1,rem2,rem3,...] [-t user@host] [-s subject] [-c num] [recipient] filename
.PP
.B [-M] [-D] [-s]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Yamn (Yet another Mix network) is  an  anonymous  remailer.  Remailers  provide
protection against   traffic  analysis  and  allow  sending  mail  anonymously
or pseudonymously.

In the non-interactive mode, Yamn reads a message from  its  standard  input
or from a Maildir.  Destination address and input file can be specified in the
command line.  If no address is given in  the  command line,  the  input  file
is expected to contain a message complete with mail headers.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-c, --copies=\fInum"
When operating in client mode, define how many copies of each message should be
sent.  Multiple copies share the same exit-remailer which retains a list of
processed Packet-IDs, ensuring that only a single copy is delivered.  This setting overrides the
default config
.B "Stats/Numcopies"
option (default: 1).
.TP
.B "--config=\fIfilename"
Specify an alternate configuration file.  This flag overrides the YAMNCFG
environment variable which, in turn, overrides the default which expects a
yamn.cfg file to exist in the same directory as the yamn binary.
.TP
.B "-D, --daemon"
Start a remailer in an endless loop of reading, processing and sending
messages.  This option only has meaning when used with the
.B "-M"
option.
.TP
.B "-l, --chain=\fIrem1,rem2,rem3,..."
Use the defined chain to route the message through the Yamn network.  Random
nodes can be selected with asterisks. E.g. --chain="*,*,*".
If multiple copies are specified, all copies must share a common exit remailer.
.TP
.B "-m, --mail"
Operate in client mode and inject a plain-text message into the Yamn pool
.TP
.B "-M, --remailer"
Operate in server mode.  Normally used in combination with 
.B "-D"
to continuously process, otherwise only a single iteration of read, process,
send  will be performed.
.TP
.B "-R, --read-mail"
Read the message from the STDIN pipe instead of from a file or Maildir.
.TP
.B "-s, --subject=\fIsubject"
Specify a Subject header for the message.  If this isn't defined, the Subject
is expected to be defined within the message.
.TP
.B "-S, --send"
Flush the outbound pool.  Useful for client mode and remailer testing but
should not be used on an in-production remailer.
.TP
.B "--stdout"
Pipe the output message to STDOUT instead of storing it in the Pool.
.TP
.B "-t, --to=\fIuser@host"
Specify a recipient for the message.  If this option isn't defined, the recipient
is expected to be included in the message itself.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Yamn, by default, reads its configuration from the file
.B "yamn.cfg"
in its working directory.  This behaviour can be overridden using the
.I "--config"
option defined above.  The file consists of
.I "name=value"
pairs, grouped into sections.
.SS Files section:
.TP
.B "Pubring"
Path to the public keyring file. Default:
.BR pubring.mix .
.TP
.B "Mlist2"
Path to the remailer statistics file. Default:
.BR mlist2.txt .
.TP
.B "Pubkey"
Path to the remailer's public key file. Default:
.BR key.txt .
.TP
.B "Secring"
Path to the remailer's secret keyring file. Default:
.BR secring.mix .
.TP
.B "Secnew"
Path to the remailer-generate secret keyring file. This file is updated as new
keys are generated and old keys expire. If the operator deems fit, the Secring
file can be overwritten by this constantly revised version. Default:
.BR "secring.new" .
.TP
.B "Adminkey"
Path to the operator's personal PGP Public Key. If this file exists, it will be
sent in response to client remailer-adminkey requests. Default:
.BR adminkey.txt .
.TP
.B "Help"
Path to the remailer help file. This will be sent in response to a
remailer-help request. Default:
.BR "help.txt" .
.TP
.B "Pooldir"
Path to the directory that will be used for storing inbound and outbound
remailer messages. Default:
.BR "pool" .
.TP
.B "Maildir"
Path to the Maildir folder the remailer will read inbound messages from.
Default:
.BR "Maildir" .
.TP
.B "IDLog"
Path to the directory that will host the ID Log Database. Default:
.BR "idlog" .
.TP
.B "ChunkDB"
Path to the director hosting the Chunk Database. Default:
.BR "chunkdb" .
.SS Urls section:
Yamn has the capability to pull stats and key sources from URLs published by
pingers.  The following settings determine which source URLS should be used
if periodic downloading is required.
.TP
.B "Fetch"
Should Yamn attempt to retrieve stats/keys at periodic intervals? Default:
.BR "yes"
.TP
.B "Pubring"
URL of a Public Keyring source.  See also
.IR "Files/Pubring"
for the default save location of the downloaded file.  Default:
.BR http://www.mixmin.net/yamn/pubring.mix .
.TP
.B "Mlist2"
URL of an Mlist2 style stats source.  See also
.IR "Files/Mlist2"
for the default save location of the download files.  Default:
.BR http://www.mixmin.net/yamn/mlist2.txt .
.SS Mail section
Special attention should be paid to this section. Without a knowledge of how
to send outbound email, both clients and remailers cannot function.
.TP
.B "Outfile"
If set to "yes", outbound messages will be written to the queue directory
instead of mailing them.  This overrides all other delivery options. Default:
.BR No .
.TP
.B "Sendmail"
Boolean (yes/no) option to determine if Yamn's internal sendmail function
should be used to deliver messages.  If set to yes, the settings
.IR SMTPRelay ,
.I SMTPUsername
and
.I SMTPPassword
.B MUST
be defined.
.IP
If set to no, the server will to use standard SMTP relay instead.  This is
potentially a good option if delivering mail to a local MTA or any one where
authentication is not required. The
.I SMTPRelay
option defines where messages should be relayed to.
.TP
.B SMTPRelay
Hostname that mail should be relayed to. Default:
.BR "127.0.0.1" .
.TP
.B SMTPPort
Used in combination with
.I SMTPRelay
to define the port number of the SMTP service. Default:
.BR 25 .
.TP
.B "Pipe"
If this option is specified, messages will be piped to an external command
for mail delivery.  A common example being:
.IR "/usr/sbin/sendmail -t" .
This overrides the
.I Sendmail
option described above.
Default: None
.TP
.B EnvelopeSender
The sender address the remailer will use on outbound messages.  This applies
to all inter-remailer messages and to final-recipient messages if no
user-defined sender is specified. Default:
.BR "nobody@nowhere.invalid" .
.SS Stats section
.TP
.B Minrel
When constructing chains with random nodes, only those exceeding this minimum
percentage uptime will be considered. Default:
.BR "98.0"
.TP
.B Relfinal
When constructing chains with a random exit node, only those exceeding this minimum
percentage uptime will be considered for the final hop. Default:
.BR "99.0"
.TP
.B Minlat
The minimal latency (in minutes) the local remailer or client will consider
when building a chain that contains one or more random nodes. Default:
.BR "2"
.TP
.B Maxlat
The highest latency (in minutes) the local remailer or client will consider
when building a chain that contains one or more random nodes. Default:
.BR "60"

